---
title: day 17
date: 2006-09-28T22:04:04
slug: "day-17"
author: "Ellen Harris-Braun"
categories:
  - "sick"
---

My hair started to come loose today.  My scalp has hurt all day and tonight my little absent-minded tug-test came up with two, three, twelve hairs per tug.  It's weird how I have a scalp-ache...not a headache, just my scalp, all over.  I had a tender scalp during the first week after chemo too, for part of a day--but it went away, and I knew that was too early to lose my hair.  So now, here it goes.  

And somehow I was kind of hoping that it would last longer...that I would get lucky.  Luckier.

Funny how hard the baldness thing is for so many people.  I guess in some ways it would be less of an issue if it were SUCH a big issue that I ran out and got a wig and wore it every day. Well, maybe not.  It is such a marker of illness, though, and not possible to really hide unless you're willing to wear a very uncomfortable itchy wig.  Which I am not.  It's the shock to myself that is hard to bear, not just the shock to everyone else.

I have thought a lot about the shock to Will and Jesse, since their mom being bald is probably the biggest sign they will see of this challenge we are all going through.  I started telling them that it would happen long ago, when I explained about the very strong medicine I would have to take.  They got into pirates this summer so we did a bunch of bandanna-tying and have acquired a useful collection of bandannas.  I have shown them the couple of new hats I've gotten.  And I told them maybe they could color my head with washable markers.

Last time I got used to being bald. I lost my head hair, then pubic and armpit hair, and near the end of chemo I noticed my (very thick) eyebrows were thinning out--but I didn't lose them or my eyelashes.  None of it was fun but I learned to not stay saddened by it.  This time I'm hoping to find moments of even, maybe, enjoying it.  I am wiling to stand out a little more these days than I was in 1995.  

But the expectation of my appearance changing from "passing" to "chemo victim" in the next few days is hard.  It's a great privilege to be able to choose who I share my world-of-the-sick status with and who I don't, and I am about to lose that privilege for the next three months or so.
