---
title: Ellen update 08/18/06
date: 2006-08-27T22:33:43
slug: "ellen-update-81806"
author: "Ellen Harris-Braun"
---

Hi there!  It's time for more news from the trenches.  Hold on to your seats, rated I for Ick due to graphic descriptions of exciting facets of my current life.

I am finally feeling pretty much all better from the surgery 3 weeks ago, though my breast still hurts.  I am back to normal activity level as of Wednesday or so.  But!

After the lumpectomy etc. 3 weeks ago, the pathologists reported that 2 margins of the excision were not clean.  Now, these were not the edges of the main piece of me my cheery surgeon, Donna Pietrocola, removed, but 2 outside edges of the extra 6 slices she took out after she removed the main block of tissue.  Who knew they did it like this? It's like cutting the mold off cheese.  Anyway, 2 outside edges were not clear of cancer cells--1 had regular bad cancer cells and 1 showed DCIS & LCIS (ductal & lobular carcinoma in situ, non-invasive-yet and non-invasive cancer).  So there's a bit more in there and therefore off I go for a re-excision (more slices) tomorrow AM at 8:30.   Needing re-excision is apparently not all all uncommon--happens 40% of the time?

I will be recovering from that for a few days, though the surgeon says it should be quicker than last time for various reasons (less extensive, immunological response to trauma already in place from before).

The 10 cells I reported were found just outside one sentinel lymph node in the earlier surgery (the sentinel lymph node biopsy part of the three-part surgery) became 10-20 cells in the final pathology report, but were measured and classed as "sub-microscopic" disease, thus of no clinical significance.  So, if I understand correctly, I am "node negative" which is very good.  Possibly the best news there's been in this whole business so far.

That makes this cancer Stage IIa based on tumor size (over 2 cm.) and node status (negative).  Last time I was stage I--tumor was smaller.

This one was classed as very aggressive, though.  It scored a 9 out of 9 on the aggressiveness scale...I always was an overachiever.

We still haven't heard about hormone-receptor status or HER2 status, but should soon. That will dictate some chemotherapy options.  We're meeting with the oncologist on Wednesday and hoping for some decisions then.  I will probably start chemo sometime in the first week of September.

My hair is shorter and going to get even shorter (when else will I be brave enough to try a buzz cut?).  Send fun bandannas, the boys are into pirates right now and I am going to take advantage! :)

Monday I had a bone scan and a CT scan at Albany Med.  I continue to be impressed with how that place is run.  I have not had to wait more than 5 minutes for any appointment yet!  Even the doctors' offices.  However, 16 oz. of barium sulfate drink labeled "Berry Smoothie" is not my idea of fun.  Tasted like a milkshake made entirely of Tums.  The results on that should be available by Wednesday, or maybe via my surgeon tomorrow--not sure.  If I write her a note on my belly maybe she'll see it during surgery and reply.

That's it for now--thanks for thinking of me!

Ellen
